#summary Installing the test database

= Introduction =

This page describes how to install the test database on your machine.

== Requirements ==
  * Linux host (tested with Ubuntu 10.04 and CentOS 5.5 x64)
  * Local installation of MySQL server and client libraries (*Ubuntu:* 5.1.41-3; *CentOS:* 5.0.77-4.el5_5.3)
  * Python 2.4 or later (*Ubuntu:* 2.6.5; *CentOS:* 2.4.3)
  * MySQL client library for Python (*Ubuntu:* 1.2.2; *CentOS:* 1.2.1-1; http://sourceforge.net/projects/mysql-python/)
  * PHP 5 (*Ubuntu:* 5.3.2-1; *CentOS:* 5.1.6-27.el5)
  * Web server running locally (*Ubuntu:* Apache/2.2.14; *CentOS:* httpd/2.2.3-43.el5.centos.3)

== Preparing the MySQL Server ==
If this is a new installation of MySQL or if it is the first time the database is being used, follow the instructions described in [http://code.google.com/p/qaautotest/wiki/MySQLSetup MySQL setup] for details on preparing the database.  If you are an experienced MySQL administrator, you should make sure you have prepared your database as follows:
  * You must know the root password for the database.
  * The database must be accessible over the network.  This will allow remote machines to access the test database through a web browser.
  * You must have all of the packages installed described in the "requirements" section above.
  * During the installation, a new user will be created to administer the Autotest database.  Identify a user and password you'd like to use for this purpose.

== Installation ==
  * Check out the source code.
  * Read through the [http://code.google.com/p/qaautotest/wiki/MySQLSetup MySQL setup] section to ensure your MySQL server is prepared to host the test database.
  * From the autotest directory, run `install.py` as root.
  * Default values are provided.  Type enter to accept the defaults or enter your own custom value.
{{{
$ sudo ./install.py
Enter the MySQL host name [localhost]: 
Enter the port address for the MySQL server [3306]: 
Enter the name for the database [autotest]: 
Enter the root user name for the MySQL database [root]: 
Enter the password for the root user: 
Enter the name of your web root [/var/www/html]: 
Create a normal user for the database [tester]: 
Create a password for the normal user: 
Enter a comma separated list of admin IPs [127.0.0.1]: 
Setting up database privileges for the test user "tester".
Installation successful!
Connect to the GUI at http://localhost/autotest
For troubleshooting tips, go to http://code.google.com/p/qaautotest/wiki/Troubleshooting
}}}

== Troubleshooting ==
See the [http://code.google.com/p/qaautotest/wiki/Troubleshooting Troubleshooting] page in the wiki.

== Uninstalling ==
  * Remove the installed files:
   # `rm -Rf <web_root>/autotest`
  * Remove any local database users:
   # `mysql -h <host> -u <user> -p`
   # `use mysql`
   # `select * from user;` 
   # `drop user "<user_name>"@"%";`
   # `drop user "<user_name>"@"localhost";`
  * Remove the test case database:
   # `mysql -h <host> -u <user> -p`
   # `drop database autotest;`
